Tutorial to send Shimmer Tokens with iota-sdk in NodeJs (#1084)
iotaledger/iota-wiki: tutorials/pages/send-shimmer-tokens-with-iota-sdk.md

# Send Shimmer tokens with iota-sdk in NodeJs

## Introduction

This tutorial shows how to get Shimmer testnet tokens and send them to another address using javascript/typescript.

### What you will learn

- Create a Stronghold account
- Generate a Shimmer address
- Get some Shimmer testnet tokens
- Fetch your balance

> - Send tokens to another address

Reviewer: Would it make sense to use some more neutral wording here? So we don't need to change the tutorial again once it is available on IOTA?

Author: Should it be like `L1` instead of `Shimmer`?

Can also do a separate PR to update Shimmer -> L1 once it's available on IOTA.

Reviewer: I think calling it L1 could make sense 👍

Reviewer: What about this change? Do you want to fix it now or later? I would do it now. Otherwise you need to touch it again in 2 weeks :trollface:

Author: I was thinking if we should even do it or not.
The tutorial can remain for Shimmer I guess. It'll be specific in that sense. IOTA can follow the same cause it'll be have same updates as Shimmer.

But if we call it L1 in general, it'd also imply for other L1s like Ethereum, Solana, etc. Should we do it?

(P.S. don't think it's gonna be just 2 weeks 😅)

Reviewer: Why would a IOTA wiki provide tutorials for other L1s? 🤔

Reviewer: But yeah we can leave it as it is. No strong opinion from my side

## Setup your environment

> [Install NodeJs](https://nodejs.org/) and update to the latest stable version available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you begin, please ensure you have [Installed NodeJs](https://nodejs.org/) and updated it to the latest stable version.
```

> Setup an env file and if you want, you can change the [BIP39 mnemonic](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/BIP_0039) and choose a different password, but be sure to set the node URLs to a Shimmer testnet node (we use the nodes provided by IF in this tutorial). For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setup a `.env` file, and if you want, you can change the [BIP39 mnemonic](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/BIP_0039) and choose a different password, but be sure to set the node URLs to a Shimmer Testnet node (we use the nodes provided by IF in this tutorial). For example:
```

```sh
# Mnemonics (Don't ever use them to manage real funds!)
MNEMONIC="endorse answer radar about source reunion marriage tag sausage weekend frost daring base attack because joke dream slender leisure group reason prepare broken river"
MNEMONIC_2="width scatter jaguar sponsor erosion enable cave since ancient first garden royal luggage exchange ritual exotic play wall clinic ride autumn divert spin exchange"
# The Wallet database folder used to store account data
WALLET_DB_PATH="./example-walletdb"
# The Stronghold snapshot file location used to store secrets
STRONGHOLD_SNAPSHOT_PATH="./example.stronghold"
# The password to unlock the Stronghold snapshot file (Don't use it to protect real secrets!)
STRONGHOLD_PASSWORD="24?drowssap"
# The node URL to issue transactions with
NODE_URL="https://api.testnet.shimmer.network"
# The faucet URL to request test coins from
FAUCET_URL="https://faucet.testnet.shimmer.network/api/enqueue"
# The explorer URL to look up transactions, blocks, addresses and more
EXPLORER_URL="https://explorer.shimmer.network/testnet"
```

> ## Create an account

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create An Account
```

Now that we have all details, let's go through the example code.

> After including the needed dependencies, we have have the main function that loads the environment variables from the `.env` file we created earlier. It uses the information to set up [Stronghold](/stronghold.rs/welcome) to store our seed safely.

Reviewer: You don't mention the env file until here

Author: Right. Will add before too.

> After including the needed dependencies, we have have the main function that loads the environment variables from the `.env` file we created earlier. It uses the information to set up [Stronghold](/stronghold.rs/welcome) to store our seed safely.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After including the needed dependencies, we have the main function that loads the environment variables from the `.env` file we created earlier. It uses the information to set up [Stronghold](/stronghold.rs/welcome) to store our seed safely.
```

```js
import { Wallet, CoinType, initLogger, WalletOptions } from '@iota/sdk';

// This example uses secrets in environment variables for simplicity which should not be done in production.
require('dotenv').config({ path: '.env' });

const walletOptions: WalletOptions = {
  storagePath: process.env.WALLET_DB_PATH,
  clientOptions: {
    nodes: [process.env.NODE_URL],
  },
  coinType: CoinType.Shimmer,
  secretManager: {
    stronghold: {
      snapshotPath: process.env.STRONGHOLD_SNAPSHOT_PATH,
      password: process.env.STRONGHOLD_PASSWORD,
    },
  },
};

const wallet = new Wallet(walletOptions);

// A mnemonic can be generated with `Utils.generateMnemonic()`.
// Store the mnemonic in the Stronghold snapshot, this needs to be done only the first time.
// The mnemonic can't be retrieved from the Stronghold file, so make a backup in a secure place!
await wallet.storeMnemonic(process.env.MNEMONIC);

// Create a new account
const account = await wallet.createAccount({
  alias: 'Alice',
});
console.log('Generated new account:', account.getMetadata().alias);
```

> If everything worked correctly, you will see the message `Generated a new account` and you will find a Stronghold file and a database directory have been created to store the current state of your wallet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If everything worked correctly, you will see the message `Generated a new account`, and you will find a Stronghold file and a database directory have been created to store the current state of your wallet.
```

## Generate an address

> In this step, we will generate a new address to receive some testnet tokens. For this we will use the second example called `02_generate_address.rs`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this step, we will generate a new address to receive some Testnet tokens. For this, we will use the second example called `02_generate_address.rs`.
```
Shouldn't it be `.js` or `.ts`? 

As well, if there examples are in a GH repo, could you import them as in the SDK docs?  https://github.com/iotaledger/iota-wiki/blob/main/shimmer/docs/iota-sdk/docs/how-tos/exchange-guide.mdx#L267-L269

Here again we read the environment variables from the `.env` file and then we recreate the account manager which will use the Stronghold file and database that were created in the previous step.

```js
// To create an address we need to unlock stronghold.
await wallet.setStrongholdPassword(process.env.STRONGHOLD_PASSWORD);

const address = (await account.generateEd25519Addresses(1))[0];

console.log(`Generated address:`, address.address);
```

You can see all testnet addresses begin with `rms`, which is the reverse of what real Shimmer addresses start with. This is how you can tell testnet and real addresses apart. You can get some testnet tokens from the [faucet](https://faucet.testnet.shimmer.network).

> ## Check the balance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Check the Balance
```

> Now you should have some tokens. To validate that, we can use the library to inspect our account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, you should have some tokens. To validate that, we can use the library to inspect our account.
```

```js
// Sync new outputs from the node.
// eslint-disable-next-line @typescript-eslint/no-unused-vars
const _syncBalance = await account.sync();

// After syncing the balance can also be computed with the local data

> const balance = await account.getBalance();

Reviewer: Should we explain that calling either of them would be enough?

Author: Yes.

console.log('Balance', balance);
```

> This should show a positive balance. If no tokens appear, try to request tokens from the faucet again. If that still doesn't work, please come over to [our Discord](https://discord.iota.org/) and we'll sort it out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This should show a positive balance. If no tokens appear, try to request tokens from the faucet again. If that still doesn't work, please come over to [our Discord](https://discord.iota.org/), and we'll sort it out.
```

> ## Send tokens

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Send Tokens
```

> Now that we have some tokens, we can send them around.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you have some tokens, you can send them to a valid address using the `Account.send` function. 
```

```js
await account.sync();

// To sign a transaction we need to unlock stronghold.
await wallet.setStrongholdPassword(process.env.STRONGHOLD_PASSWORD);

// Replace with the address of your choice!
const address =
  'rms1qpszqzadsym6wpppd6z037dvlejmjuke7s24hm95s9fg9vpua7vluaw60xu';
const amount = BigInt(1);

const transaction = await account.send(amount, address, {
  allowMicroAmount: true,
});

console.log(`Transaction sent: ${transaction.transactionId}`);

const blockId = await account.retryTransactionUntilIncluded(
  transaction.transactionId,
);

console.log(`Block sent: ${process.env.EXPLORER_URL}/block/${blockId}`);
```

> This could take some time. The manager will automatically go through your addresses to find enough tokens to match the amount you want to send. Then it will sign the resulting transaction and send it to the node. It will warn you when you don't have enough balance, but otherwise it will show you the transaction ID, which you can use to find your transaction in the [testnet explorer](https://explorer.testnet.shimmer.network/testnet).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This could take some time. The manager will automatically review your addresses to find enough tokens to match the amount you want to send. Then, it will sign and send the resulting transaction to the node. It will warn you when you don't have enough balance, but otherwise, it will show you the transaction ID, which you can use to find your transaction in the [Testnet explorer](https://explorer.testnet.shimmer.network/testnet).
```

Congratulations, you are now able to manage your tokens programmatically!

## What's next?

> You now can create an account, generate addresses and transfer tokens. Check out the [documentation](/iota-sdk/welcome) to see what more you can do. Create some native tokens, non-fungible tokens (NFTs) and develop your own application! Have fun and good luck!

Reviewer: This won't work as the tutorial also exist in the IOTA section where no iota-idk exists (yet :trollface: )

So for now use an absolute link: 
```suggestion
You now can create an account, generate addresses and transfer tokens. Check out the [documentation](https://wiki.iota.org/shimmer/iota-sdk/welcome) to see what more you can do. Create some native tokens, non-fungible tokens (NFTs) and develop your own application! Have fun and good luck!
```

> You now can create an account, generate addresses and transfer tokens. Check out the [documentation](https://wiki.iota.org/shimmer/iota-sdk/welcome) to see what more you can do. Create some native tokens, non-fungible tokens (NFTs) and develop your own application! Have fun and good luck!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now create an account, generate addresses, and transfer tokens. Check out the [documentation](https://wiki.iota.org/shimmer/iota-sdk/welcome) to see what more you can do. [Create native tokens](/iota-sdk/how-tos/native-tokens/create/), or [mint non-fungible tokens (NFTs)](/iota-sdk/how-tos/nfts/mint-nft/) and develop your application! Have fun and good luck!
```
